$Id$

SLASH2 Authentication models

Phase 0 - User ID mapping

At this time, interoperation between sites is not possible.  With
relative ease, a UID translator can be placed at mount_slash endpoints
which translates UIDs from the OS to the global SLASH2 UID when handling
syscalls and vice versa when replying to syscalls.

Phase 1 - Host based authentication

However, with no root squashing, and even if we add it, there is still
the problem of compromised/untrusted mount_slash endpoints having full
reign over all data in the SLASH2 file system.  Host-based
authentication solves some of these problems in that it can provide a
mechanism to revoke access to the SLASH2 file system in cases of known
compromised mount_slash endpoints.

Furthermore, restrictions can be placed on the certificates for
mount_slash endpoints such that all accesses will only be granted to
certain UIDs.

However, this model still does not solve the problem where an unknown
compromised mount_slash with full reign privileges (that is, no UID
restrictions; for example, on a large compute system) can wreak havoc on
other users' files.

This solution entails deploying a PKI model to each host on the network.
This means generating a certificate for each slashd, sliod, and
mount_slash that wishes to participate on the SLASH2 network.

Phase 2 - Full Kerberos support

This approach alleviates all problems with the previous approaches at
the cost of implementation and deployment complexity.  But even in the
case of unknown compromised full access mount_slash endpoints, only
files owned by accounts with valid cached Kerberos tickets on the
endpoint may be accessed.

Notes about implementation from Bob:

Idea from Eric Barton: that encryption/uid mapping take place at or close to
the router level or on the router.

 slauthd:
 - runs on clients as part of mount_slash
 - handles authentication using kerberos
    - user is who he says
    - user is allowed to setup time limited grants for clients
 - handles grant relay to slash server authd and/or slash mds
    - grant user@domain(s) access to slash uid for time period
    - revoke grants
 - *possible* vouches for user from hosts with grants. aka slaccd contacts a
   slauthd client for kerberos verification.

 slaccd:
 - runs as server on slash mds or seperate server
 - maintains access grants
 - is queried to determine if client reads/writes should be processed
 - maintains keys for data encryption
 - may be coupled with a slash kerberos deployment

example
- assume we have a slash kerb realm "SLASH.ORG"
- assume we have a compute cluster "cluster.org" with nodes "node1.cluster.org",
  "node2.cluster.org", etc.
- assume we have a client machine "client.org"

steps a user would take to use the file system:
 1. user on client.org runs slauth_init (random example below)
       slauth_init rbudden@SLASH.ORG --slashuser=rmbudden --grant="node*.cluster.org" --time=24h
 2. user enters his slash krb password
 3. kerberos is contacted and user is given a ticket
 4. the ticket is sent to slauthd which tells slauthd that the user is allowed to
    access the file system from the local client and that the user is allowed to
    setup grants for access
 5. slauthd approves grants for user on "node1.cluster.org, node2.cluster.org, etc."
 6. grants are sent to slaccd (slaccd knows user is allowed file system access
    from node*.cluster.org for 24 hours using the username rmbudden [not
    necessarily the same slash krb principle rbudden])
 7. user submits computation job
 8. computation job tries to write to slash
 9. slash mount asks slaccd if it's permitted to write to the file system
10. slaccd looks up grants for user and approves I/O on the node for specified
    time (insert possible slauthd contact to obtain kerberos credentials)
11. approval is cached on the client mount
12. I/O proceeds accordingly

Other ideas:
- Having a way to request auth from a client, say in the job script, then revoke
  auth after the job has finished.

This might be for data encryption such as:

   slauth_request_key (slauthd approves grant, issues a new encryption key)
   ...
   job runs
   ...
   slauth_revoke_key (slauthd revokes encryption key)
   slauth_revoke_grant (slauthd revokes access grant from computational nodes
     since job is finished)

